---
title: Disentangling the influence of knowledge on attribute non-attendance
author: Erlend
category: journal article
tags: attribute non-attendance knowledge choice modeling 
image: 2016-09-06-jocm.jpg
---

We seek to disentangle the effect of knowledge about an environmental good on respondents' propensity to ignore one or more attributes on the choice cards in a discrete choice experiment eliciting people's preferences for increased protection of cold-water corals in Norway.

We hypothesize that a respondent's level of knowledge influences the degree to which she ignores
attributes. Respondents participated in a quiz on cold-water coral prior to the valuation task and
we use the result of the quiz as an ex-ante measure of their knowledge. Our results suggests that
a high level of knowledge, measured by a high quiz score, is associated with higher probabilities
of attendance to the three non-cost attributes, although this effect is only significant for one of
them. A higher quiz score is also associated with a significantly lower probability of attending to
the cost attribute. Furthermore, although being told your score has mixed directional effects on
attribute non-attendance, it does not significantly affect the probability of attending to any of the
attributes. Finally, allowing for attribute non-attendance leads to substantially lower conditional
willingness-to-pay estimates. This highlights the importance of measuring how much people
know about the goods over which they are choosing, and underlines that more research is needed
to understand how information influences the degree to which respondents ignore attributes.

**Reference:**

[Sandorf, E.D., Campbell, D. & Hanley, N., 2017, Disentangling the influence of knowledge on attribute non-attendance, Journal of Choice Modelling, 24, 36-50](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1755534515300622)
